[SOURCE=https://www.hasbro.com/common/instruct/Checkers.PDF]
INTRODUCTORY RULES for CHECKERS
THE BOARD:
The checker board is divided into 64 alternate light and dark squares.
The game of checkers is played on the squares of one color only, and it is common practice to play on the darker colored squares.
THE MEN:
There are twenty-four men. One player uses twelve light colored men and the other player uses twelve dark colored men.
SET-UP:
The board is set between the two players so that each player has dark corner space at his left, when the play is on the dark squares.
Each player places his twelve men on the dark squares in the first three rows in front of him. This leaves clear the two center rows.
OBJECT:
The object of the game is to capture all of the opponent's men or else to confine them so that the opponent has no possible move.
If neither player can do either of these things the game becomes a draw.
PLAY:
For the first game draw lots to determine which player has the choice
of color of men. In following games players alternately use the dark and light sets of men.
The dark men always have the first move.
The movement of one man by a player, employing either the Simple Move or Jump, constitutes his turn.
SIMPLE MOVE:
As the men never leave the color upon which they are first placed,
all moves must be diagonal. A man can move only one square at a time,
and only to a square diagonally in front of him (in the direction of his opponent's side of the board).
JUMP:
If the square to which a man might move is occupied by an opponent's
man, this man may jump the opponent's man if there is a vacant square immediately beyond it. Two or more men may sometimes be jumped in
succession on a single turn if the opponent's men are in proper position.
All men jumped are removed from the board.
When a player has an opportunity to jump an opponent's piece MUST do so.
If a player has two or more different opportunities to jump on turn, he may take the jump he chooses.
KING:
When a man reaches one of the squares in the last row across the
board from where it started, it is made a King by placing one of the previously captured men of the same color on it.
Kings can move and jump diagonally either forward or backward.