[SOURCE=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rules_of_chess]
Initial setup
Starting position
Chess is played on a chessboard, a square board divided into a grid of 64 squares (eight-by-eight) of alternating color (similar to the board used in draughts).
Regardless of the actual colors of the board, the lighter-colored squares are called "light" or "white", and the darker-colored squares are called "dark" or "black".
Sixteen "white" and sixteen "black" pieces are placed on the board at the beginning of the game.
The board is placed so that a white square is in each player's near-right corner.
Horizontal rows are called ranks, and vertical columns are called files.

At the beginning of the game, the pieces are arranged as follows:

Rooks are placed on the outside corners, right and left edge.
Knights are placed immediately inside of the rooks.
Bishops are placed immediately inside of the knights.
The queen is placed on the central square of the same color of that of the piece:
white queen on the white square and black queen on the black square.
The king takes the vacant spot next to the queen.
Pawns are placed one square in front of all of the other pieces.

Gameplay
White and black
The player controlling the white pieces is named "White";
the player controlling the black pieces is named "Black".
White moves first, then players alternate moves.
Making a move is required;
it is not legal to skip a move, even when having to move is detrimental.
Play continues until a king is checkmated, a player resigns, or a draw is declared, as explained below.

Movement
Basic moves

Each type of chess piece has its own method of movement. A piece moves to a vacant square except when capturing an opponent's piece.

Except for any move of the knight and castling, pieces cannot jump over other pieces. A piece is captured (or taken) when an attacking enemy piece replaces it on its square. The captured piece is thereby permanently removed from the game. The king can be put in check but cannot be captured (see below).

The king moves exactly one square adjacent to it.
A special move with the king known as castling is allowed only once per player, per game (see below).
A rook moves any number of vacant squares horizontally or vertically.
It also is moved when castling.
A bishop moves any number of vacant squares diagonally.
(Thus a bishop can move to only light or dark squares, not both.)
The queen moves any number of vacant squares horizontally, vertically, or diagonally.
A knight moves to one of the nearest squares not on the same rank, file, or diagonal.
(This can be thought of as moving two squares horizontally then one square vertically, or moving one square horizontally then two squares vertically—i.e. in an "L" pattern.)
The knight is not blocked by other pieces; it jumps to the new location.
Pawns have the most complex rules of movement:
A pawn moves straight forward one square, if that square is vacant.
If it has not yet moved, a pawn also has the option of moving two squares straight forward, provided both squares are vacant.
Pawns cannot move backwards.
A pawn, unlike other pieces, captures differently from how it moves.
A pawn can capture an enemy piece on either of the two squares diagonally in front of the pawn.
It cannot move to those squares when vacant except when capturing en passant.
The pawn is also involved in the two special moves en passant and promotion.

Castling
Castling consists of moving the king two squares towards a rook, then placing the rook on the other side of the king, adjacent to it.
Castling is only permissible if all of the following conditions hold:

The king and rook involved in castling must not have previously moved;
There must be no pieces between the king and the rook;
The king may not currently be under attack, nor may the king pass through or end up in a square that is under attack by an enemy piece (though the rook is permitted to be under attack and to pass over an attacked square);
The castling rook must be on the same rank as the king
An unmoved king and an unmoved rook of the same color on the same rank are said to have castling rights.

En passant
When a pawn advances two squares on its initial move and ends the turn adjacent to an enemy pawn on the same rank, it may be captured en passant by the enemy pawn as if it had moved only one square.
This capture is legal only on the move immediately following the pawn's advance.

Promotion
If a player advances a pawn to its eighth rank, the pawn is then promoted (converted) to a queen, rook, bishop, or knight of the same color at the choice of the player.

Check
A king is in check when it is under attack by at least one enemy piece.
A piece unable to move because it would place its own king in check (it is pinned against its own king) may still deliver check to the opposing player.

It is illegal to make a move that places or leaves one's king in check.
The possible ways to get out of check are:

Move the king to a square where it is not in check.
Capture the checking piece.
Interpose a piece between the king and the opponent's threatening piece (block the check).

End of the game
Checkmate
If a player's king is placed in check and there is no legal move that player can make to escape check, then the king is said to be checkmated, the game ends, and that player loses.

Resigning
Either player may resign at any time, conceding the game to the opponent.

Draws	
The game ends in a draw if any of these conditions occur:

The player to move is not in check and has no legal move.
This situation is called a stalemate.
Both players agree to a draw after one of the players makes such an offer.